# Interpiler – turn an interpreter into a code generator

Interpiler is a tool that takes the LLVM IR of an interpreter and outputs a C++
class that generates code (roughly) equivalent to what the interpreter would
execute if you ran it on the same input.

For instance, if you had this trivial interpreter function:

    void add(int* result, int a, int b)
    {
    	*result = a + b;
    }

Interpiler would create a class with an `add` method, accepting 3 `llvm::Value*`
operands, that would append the following instructions to a `BasicBlock`:

	%0 = add i32 %a, i32 %b
	store i32 %0, i32* %result, align 4

LLVM's optimization passes can then be used to optimize the generated code and
obtain something that's much more efficient than a simple interpreter would ever
let you do. The biggest opportunities are probably constant folding and dead
store elimination.

Additionally, you get the convenience of writing your code generation routines
in a high level language (C, C++, or almost anything that can produce LLVM IR),
rather than in a pseudo-readable C++ DSL for code generation.

## Usage

Interpiler accepts a file representing a LLVM `Module`. This file can either be
in LLVM IR (textual assembly) or LLVM bitcode (binary). Each function declared
there will be transposed into a method in a C++ class that will emit the
instructions that the function would normally execute.

	USAGE: interpiler [options] <input module>

	  -c=<classname>    - Output class name (defaults to module name)
	  -o=<filename>     - Output files name (defaults to <classname>)
	  -oh=<header.h>    - Output header file name (defaults to <filename>.h)
	  -oi=<impl.cpp>    - Output implementation file name (defaults to <filename>.cpp)

## Building

Interpiler links against LLVM and as such needs a host of its libraries. The
Xcode project links against said libraries with my own local path, which is
unlikely to be the same as yours.

I'll probably eventually make it a "normal" LLVM tool in the future, that uses
CMake like the others. For now, poke me if you need help to build it on Linux,
this may motivate me to accelerate the changes.

## Limitations

Interpiler cannot generate calls to functions that have a declaration in the
same module (because that function will be "interpiled" as well and will no
longer have a definition). Calling externals is not an issue, though. Be sure
that the functions that you call are either inlined or not declared in the same
module.

Interpiler has only been (somewhat) tested on modules generated by Clang. YMMV
with other compilers.

Branches need special treatment. See brainfuck's `compile.cpp` for an example.

So far, I've only implemented generation for the instructions that I needed to
get *my* things going. Feel free to contribute!